'Regard spiritual discipline in the same way as you regard 
the goal,'which means that an aspirant should not differentiate between cause and 
effect.

Just as the individual 
soul is encased in a living body, so is the Universal Soul, in the living prakriti (nature), 
the objective universe. Kali is embracing Siva. This is not a fancy. This covering of the 
one (Soul) by the other (nature) is analogous to the relation between an idea and the 
word expressing it. They are one and the same, and it is only by a mental abstraction 
that one can distinguish them. Thought is impossible without words. Therefore in the 
beginning was the Word, etc. 
This dual aspect of the Universal Soul is eternal. So what we perceive or feel is the 
combination of the Eternally Formed and the Eternally Formless.
Thus Naren realized, in the depths of meditation, the oneness of the universe and man, 
who is a universe in miniature. He realized that, all that exists in the universe also 
exists in the body, and further, that the whole universe exists in the atom.

Go forward without a path, 
Fearing nothing, caring for nothing, 
Wandering alone, like the rhinoceros! 
Even as a lion, not trembling at noises, 
Even as the wind, not caught in a net, 
Even as the lotus leaf, untainted by water, 
Do thou wander alone, like the rhinoceros!

the knowledge of God's presence in man was the source of man's 
strength and wisdom.

Lord! We will succeed. Hundreds will fall in the struggle — hundreds will be ready to 
take it up. Faith — sympathy, fiery faith and fiery sympathy! Life is nothing, death is 
nothing — hunger nothing, cold nothing. Glory unto the Lord! March on, the Lord is 
our General. Do not look back to see who falls — forward — onward!

'Rise at the expense of another? I did not come to earth for that.'

'The 
higher your ideal is, the more miserable you are,' for such a thing as an ideal cannot be 
attained in the world — or in this life, even. He who wants perfection in the world is a 
madman — for it cannot be. How can you find the infinite in the finite?

'He who is very particular gets nothing

There is no progress without 
regression.

The musk-deer, after vain search for the cause of 
the scent of the musk, at last will have to find it in himself.

'Ay, let every man and woman and child, without respect of caste or birth, weakness or 
strength, hear and learn that behind the strong and the weak, behind the high and the 
low, behind everyone, there is that Infinite Soul, assuring all the infinite possibility and 
the infinite capacity to become great and good. Let us proclaim to every soul: Arise, 
arise, awake! Awake from this hypnotism of weakness. None is really weak; the soul is 
infinite, omnipotent, and omniscient. Stand up, assert yourself, proclaim the God 
within you, do not deny Him!' 

Anything that makes you weak physically, intellectually, and spiritually, reject as 
poison; there is no life in it, it cannot be true. Truth is strengthening. Truth is purity, 
truth is all knowledge. Truth must be strengthening, must be enlightening, must be 
invigorating. Give up these weakening mysticisms and be strong. The greatest truths 
are the simplest things in the world, simple as your own existence.

The will is stronger than anything else. Everything must go down 
before the will, for that comes from God: a pure and strong will is 
omnipotent.'

My advice to you is that if 
you want peace of mind, you shall have to serve others to the best of your ability.


If you are satisfied with the decisions which you have taken today, be assured that you will be satisfied/happy in your future.

"Dependence is 
misery. Independence is happiness."

'No rest for me! I shall die in harness! I love action! Life is a battle, 
and one must always be in action, to use a military phrase. Let me live and die in 
action!'

Work cannot produce real fruit without detachment on the part of the worker.


Work, my children, work with your whole heart and 
soul! That is the thing. Mind not the fruit of work.


The true man is he who 
is strong as strength itself and yet possesses a woman's heart.'


Evidently, according to him, the vilest crime was not to act, to do nothing at all.

The world cannot touch our souls. If you want, even if the body 
be torn and bleeding, you may enjoy the greatest peace in your mind. And the way to 
that is to attain hopelessness.


'My boy, take my advice; 
develop your muscles and brain by eating good food and by healthy exercise, and then 
you will be able to think for yourself. Without nourishing food your brain seems to 
have weakened a little.'


'He who has realized the 
Atman becomes a storehouse of great power.


'The body is 
only a tool of the mind. What the mind dictates the body will have to obey. Now I do 
not even think of water. I do not miss it at all.... I see I can do anything.' 


*What business have you to consider 
the fruits of your action? Your duty is to go on working, and everything will set itself 
right in time, and work by itself.


*The pain
of wondering about the what-ifs is harsher than the pains of rejection.


*I have often seen, many times in my own life, instances where you may
deserve something. But it doesn’t always mean it’ll be handed to you without an
initial struggle, or at the time when you want it. I don’t have a reason for why
this happens, but I’d like to think it’s a test of how badly you want something.